COLORBLINDNESS
Leija Farr: I think it's funny when people
say that, like, "I'm colorblind I don't see color."
Like, of course you see color.
Rachael DeCruz: Colorblindness to me means
denying the fact that racism exists and racism
still impacts us.
Mark Olsen: I believe that all people are
wonderfully and fearfully made, and diversity
is a part of God's creation. If it's kind
of well, we need to stop you know stereotyping
based on different colors. If that's colorblindness,
okay I can see what they're saying there,
but I think if we're going to talk about true
colorblindness I don't I think that does a disservice.
Because we're ignoring a major
parts of people's lives.
Greg Rickel: I think there's a richness in
our diversity. And I think colorblindness
kind of tries to erase that and it's also
a jump to denial.
It's a way to put the conversation at rest.
Louis Chude-Sokei: It's become a bad word.
There was a time when it was the goal.
Darrell Hillaire: I think that's a good word,
you know, I think that’s a good word when
we reach that point of colorblindness. And
you don't see race; you see a person.
Varisha Khan: Yes it's a great idea, like
it's a great goal is a great vision to have.
Like, let's be in a world where we don't have
to worry about differences, to truly value
each other for just our character, for just
our personality, for just our experience,
would be a great thing. I'd love to see that
one day. But the reality is we're, you know,
in a world that does see a difference.
Keli Carender: I think a lot of people were
raised to not, to not take color as the main
thing about a person. It's really jarring,
I think, and very hard to understand why somebody
would want to have everyone pay attention
to what color they are, when you've worked
your whole life to try to make sure that people
are treated equally regardless of color.
Louis: There are a lot of white people who
are indeed colorblind because they were taught
by black people to be -- (laughs) that this
is a good thing. And so, they don't realize
that well, no you were taught by one segment
of the black political world to be. There
are other segments that believe quite different
things. It's an it's an older solution (laughs)
right? It’s an older solution that has become
a problem.
Duck Bae: Being colorblind essentially means
that we're trying to homogenize everyone that we see.
So it might be a noble, noble effort
in some cases but homogenization of any culture
inevitably has us slowly drifting towards
being the white ideal.
Jerrell Davis: Like if you're saying, “oh
I don't see you as black, I just see you as Jerrell."
Like no bro, I want you to see
me as black, like that's why I got dreadlocks,
that's why you know I'm saying like, that's
why I talk like this, that why I wear my Africa
gear, you know like, I'm proud to be what
I am. And people that, say they're colorblind
or say that they don't see that, I think that
that speaks more to their internal struggle
than it does to the external.
Varisha: It's almost as if it comes from a
place of discomfort, and you know, as if I
don't want to hear about race, and as if it's
a problem that we have different races and
we have different backgrounds.
Lucas Nydam: Even if for some reason you were
completely colorblind, it wouldn't matter
because the schools see color, the jails see
color, like with systemic racism you don't
even have to see color because the systems
we've made will see color for you.
Cynthia Tee: I don't think anybody can truly
be colorblind. I don't think being colorblind
as a person actually exists.
Tariqa Waters: If you just meet me, you know
you'd better not come out your mouth and say
“I don't see color.” Unless you're in
this just utopia of “race doesn't exist
anymore and we're just all one...” I always
like to refer to it as like the movie “Avatar.”
We’re just gonna be blue.
Jerrell: It's self defeating. Like, “I'm
colorblind, I don't see the fact that we're
all different.” You just said that we're
all different.
Autumn: Kids see different colors of skin.
Babies see it. I can tell when I meet a baby
that has not seen a black person before because
they're like “Oh!” It’s just this reaction
and it’s super weird. Overall sure, it doesn't
matter what race someone is, but do we see
it? Absolutely and it's beautiful, it's really
cool.
Duck Bae: I have no idea what I'd rather have
the term be rather than “colorblind.”
Color thoughtful? Colorminded? I have no idea.
Colorblindness doesn’t stop to think about accommodations that might need to be made for races.
Cynthia: I used to struggle a lot with this
notion of why you need to treat people differently,
like why? If we're all equal you shouldn't
have to treat anybody differently. But now
I've come around to the other side where is
realizing that if the environment you're in
is fundamentally biased, you do need to treat
people differently, like you just do.
Keli: I think you can be a person that says
I'm colorblind because I treat everyone equally
regardless of their skin color and still be
completely, you know and still understand
that people have different experiences or
cultures or whatever.
Michael Dixon: It's a false premise. Everybody
is conscious of color. They just don't understand it.
JOIN THE CONVERSATION